Activation of an apical Ca2+-activated Cl- channel (CaCC) triggers the secretion of saliva. It was previously demonstrated that CaCCmediated Cl- current and Cl- efflux are absent in the acinar cells of systemic Tmem16A (Tmem16A Cl- channel) null mice, but salivation was not assessed in fully developed glands because Tmem16A null mice die within a few days after birth. To test the role of Tmem16A in adult salivary glands, we generated conditional knockout mice lacking Tmem16A in acinar cells ( Tmem16A-/ -). Ca2+-dependent salivation was abolished in Tmem16A-/ - mice, demonstrating that Tmem16A is obligatory for Ca2+-mediated fluid secretion. However, the amount of saliva secreted by Tmem16A-/ - mice in response to the β-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol (IPR) was comparable to that seen in controls, indicating that Tmem16A does not significantly contribute to cAMP-induced secretion. Furthermore, IPR-stimulated secretion was unaffected in mice lacking Cftr (CftrΔF508/ΔF508) or ClC-2 (Clcn2-/ -) Cl- channels. The time course for activation of IPR-stimulated fluid secretion closely correlated with that of the IPR-induced cell volume increase, suggesting that acinar swelling may activate a volume-sensitive Cl- channel. Indeed, Cl- channel blockers abolished fluid secretion, indicating that Cl- channel activity is critical for IPR-stimulated secretion. These data suggest that β- adrenergic - induced, cAMP-dependent fluid secretion involves a volume-regulated anion channel. In summary, our results using acinar-specific Tmem16A-/ - mice identify Tmem16A as the Cl- channel essential for muscarinic, Ca2+-dependent fluid secretion in adult mouse salivary glands. acinar cell secretion Cl- channel Tmem16A/Ano1 Cftr channel We thank the University of Cincinnati Animal Core Facility for the design and generation of the exon 12-floxed Tmem16A mouse. The Secretory Mechanisms and Dysfunction Section is supported by the Intramural Research Program of the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research, National Institutes of Health (NIH). Z.B., E.C., and P.F. were supported by the Hastings and Whittier Foundations and the NIH. G.E.S. was supported by NIH Grant DK050594.