Soil is a highly complex material, and because of rapid population growth, intense industrial activity and petrochemical development, it has suffered from contamination with substances of various origins. These environmental contaminants may have detrimental effects on human health, particularly during development. Due to the ability to transmit contaminants to the fetus, evaluating the effects of exposure of pregnant women on the psychomotor development of their offspring is of particular interest. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the effects of exposure of female rats to an urban soil influenced by the dispersion of air contaminants during periods of pre-pregnancy, pregnancy and lactation on offspring development. Using physiological, behavioral and hematological parameters, deleterious effects on offspring were assessed. In behavioral parameters, parental exposure during pregnancy and lactation resulted in no significant differences in the evaluated parameters when compared to the control group. In contrast, pups from the pre-pregnancy group displayed decreased locomotor and exploratory activity in addition to increased levels of anxiety. Furthermore, offspring of rats exposed to contaminated urban soil during pre-pregnancy demonstrated significant changes in weight gain and development length and a reduction in the number of platelets compared to controls. Significantly, pups born to mothers exposed to contaminated urban soil during the pregnancy displayed changes in birth weight, weight gain during the growth, development length, incisor eruption and opening of the ears in addition to a reduction in their physical performance and a change in the number of lymphocytes. These results clearly show the negative influence of parental exposure to contaminated urban soil on the general development of the rats during the periods studied. These data indicate that developing organisms are highly sensitive to external factors. Further, they demonstrate the utility of these various biomarkers for identifying and displaying toxic effects of exposure to contaminated soils. © 2015 Elsevier B.V.