Trackways of archosaurs have recently been discovered in sandstones of the Upper Triassic (Norian-Rhaetian) Baoding Formation of Panzhihua City in southern Sichuan Province, China. Based on their overall-morphology, pes imprints are of characteristic chirotheriid shape showing a compact and symmetrical anterior group of digit traces II-IV with the trace of digit III being the longest, and a posterolaterally positioned, long and slender trace of digit V. Imprints of digit I and the manus are not preserved. This could be related to substrate conditions and the relatively shallow impressions, even if peculiarities in the gait such as overstep of the manus by the pes or bipedal movement cannot completely be excluded. Ichnotaxonomically, the imprints are assigned tentatively to cf. Chirotherium. There are some similarities with the type ichnospecies C. barthii from the Middle Triassic that has a global distribution and that was described also from the Guanling Formation (Middle Triassic) of adjacent Guizhou Province. However, the long and slender digit V that lacks a distinct large oval basal pad, the relatively short stride/step length, the low pace angulation, and the slight inward rotation of the imprints toward the midline are different. The peculiar shape of digit V and the lack of digit I in all imprints also preclude an assignment to the common Late Triassic ichnogenus Brachychirotherium or similar ichnotaxa such as Pseudotetrasauropus. An isolated tridactyl footprint on the same surface is different in shape from the chirotheriid ones by the stronger mesaxony and narrower digit divarication. It is considered here as a possible large grallatorid. This is the first occurrence of tetrapod footprints in the Baoding Formation of Sichuan Province and the second record of chirotheriids in the Triassic of China. The Baoding Formation has also yielded a characteristic Upper Triassic flora with cycads, filicopsids, gingkos, and conifers as well as bivalve fossils. The depositional environment can be designated as fluvial-lacustrine with occasional opening to marine areas. Considering biostratigraphic and palaeobiogeographic aspects, the late occurrence of chirotheriids cf. Chirotherium in China supports the view that basal crown-group archosaurs with a distinct tendency toward a functionally tridactyl pes developed and dispersed in parallel to typical tridactyl dinosaurs. •New chirothere and grallatorid footprints enrich the Late Triassic record from China.•Chirotheriids show morphological peculiarities and are assigned to cf. Chirotherium.•Trackmakers were basal archosaurs with a functionally tridactyl pes and theropods. © 2014 Elsevier B.V.