A re-description of the Early Cretaceous Zhaojue dinosaur tracksite (Sichuan Province, China) is the major focus of the present work. The tracksite is located in an active copper mine, and a dinosaur track-bearing surface of about 1500m2 (named tracksite I) initially discovered in 1991, has since almost completely collapsed due to ongoing quarry activities. Only about 5% of the initial surface still remains in place (named "remaining tracksite"), while due to the collapse a few new but rather poorly-preserved tracks were unearthed on an underlying level. While the tracks still in place were studied using common field techniques, a schematic tracksite map of the collapsed surface was drawn based on a "corrected orthophotograph" that was generated from overview photographs and from video frames. Fortunately, the resolution of some of the close-up video frames is sufficiently high to observe general track morphology, and to re-interpret previously wrongly identified trackways. Here, we report a quite diverse ichnocoenosis consisting of sauropod, ornithopod, theropod, and pterosaur trackways and isolated tracks. The sauropod trackways belong to the Brontopodus-type and were possibly left by medium-sized titanosaurs. One of the sauropod trackways turns around and makes an astonishingly narrow turn of more than 180° with very pronounced "off-tracking" of the manus with respect to the pes. Such unusual trackways are important for the reconstruction of sauropod locomotion. The theropod trackways were left by small and medium-sized animals with the imprint morphology being similar to that of the ichnogenera Grallator and Eubrontes. Large tridactyl tracks with blunt toes are tentatively identified as ornithopod tracks and may be described as Caririchnium-type tracks. Pterosaur tracks can be assigned to Pteraichnus. The association of pterosaur with small theropod tracks is rather unusual, and this tracksite further corroborates the frequent presence of large ornithopods in inland environmental settings. © 2014 Elsevier Ltd.