The multi-environment probability density function approach has been applied to simulate turbulent CH4/H2 flames under moderate or intense low-oxygen dilution (MILD) conditions. In order to circumvent excessive computational burden, the direct quadrature method of moments (DQMOM) has been adopted as an alternative approach to solve the transported probability density function (PDF) equation. The multi-environment PDF approach has the form of a conventional Eulerian scheme and retains the desirable property of a particle-based method. In this study, the joint-composition PDF is approximated using the two-environment PDF, expressed via the combination of weights and abscissas on the composition and physical space. Micromixing is represented by the IEM model, and the chemical mechanism is based on detailed chemistry. In terms of the unconditional means and conditional statistics for temperature and mass fractions of species and pollutants, the predicted profiles are in reasonable agreement with experimental data. Numerical results clearly indicate that the two-environment PDF transport model has the capability to realistically predict the effects of oxygen mass fraction on the flame lift-off, auto-ignition, flame structure, and NOx formation characteristics in turbulent CH4/H2 jet flames issuing from a jet in hot coflow (JHC). It was also found that the two-environment PDF approach reproduces the sensitivity of the CO and CO2 peak levels versus the O2 concentration variation, as well as the peak levels of NO conditional fluctuations under the MILD combustion condition. Even if considerable discrepancies in the unconditional means exist mainly due to inconsistent treatment of weight combination and shortcomings of singularity treatment procedure, the present three-environment PDF model well captures the measured high-level conditional temperature and CO fluctuations on the fuel-lean side where the local extinction occurs via mixing of the shrouded cold air and the vitiated flame field. © 2014 The Combustion Institute.