This study addresses the problem of incorporating moist processes (resolving the grid scale and parameterizing the subgrid scale) at resolutions of 9 and 3 km with double- and triple-nested domains, respectively, in predicting the track and intensity of four cases of weaker tropical cyclones over the North Indian Ocean. The sensitivity experiments are carried out with three convective parameterization schemes, and the results are evaluated based on the track and intensity of cyclones. The Betts-Miller-Janjic scheme shows the most reasonable representation of track and intensity and therefore is used for all sensitivity experiments related to microphysical schemes in two and three domains. Three sets of microphysics sensitivity experiments are carried out: The first set includes experiments with parameterized moist convection (referred to as the 9-km experiment) in two domains (27 and 9 km). The second and third sets of simulation experiments are carried out at 9 km in two domains (27 and 9 km; referred to as the 9-km-noCP) and at 3 km in three domains (27 km, 9 km and 3 km; referred to as the 3-km experiment), respectively, by resolving the grid-scale convection explicitly with the four bulk microphysical schemes. The explicit moist convection treatment at 9- and 3-km resolution produces a better cyclone simulation than the parameterized convection at 9-km resolution. The latent heat released in the generation of hydrometeors such as snow and graupel in the mid-tropospheric levels appears to influence the heating within the inner core of the cyclone. The comparable and more realistic representation of mid-tropospheric heating is possibly one of the main reasons behind the improvement at 9-km-noCP and 3 km. The stronger vertical advection of moist static energy gives well-organized mesoscale convection within the cyclone environment at 9-km-noCP and 3-km resolution. This study therefore demonstrates the importance of microphysical processes in the simulation of weaker TC over the North Indian Ocean. © 2014, Springer Basel.