Sustainable development is of prime importance to the chemical industry. Emergy analysis is a method for evaluating process sustainability. In this method all the resources utilized are evaluated on the common basis of solar energy. Therefore, accounting for both natural and economic inputs can be presented employing the same unit for sustainability evaluation and optimization. In this paper, four ethylene production systems were evaluated using emergy accounting techniques. Production of ethylene from naphtha by steam cracking, natural gas or pine residue based methanol to olefins (MTO) and switchgrass bioethanol process routes were analyzed. Several emergy based indices were employed to evaluate and compare the system performances.The emergy analysis showed large differences between the biomass and fossil based processes: The fossil based ethylene processes represent good emergy yield and investment ratios, implying good utilization of the emergy invested. On the other hand, they have high environmental loadings and a very low renewable percentage, which means bad environmental performance. Also, their emergy efficiency (specific emergy) is poor: on average they consume nearly 2.5 times as much biosphere resources (emergy/kg ethylene) as the renewable based processes.The biomass based processes present the opposite characteristics: lower specific emergy of products, moderate environmental loading, higher renewable percentage (approx. 20%) but worse emergy yield and investment ratios.In conclusion, the fossil based processes give a better return on the emergy invested in the short term but are very emergy inefficient and represent large environmental loadings. Therefore, the biomass based processes should be favored for long term sustainability. These consume only about 40% of biosphere resources per kg of ethylene compared to the fossil based processes. The ultimate choice depends on whether only ethylene is required or other olefins also; the switchgrass ethanol dehydration process produces ethylene with the best emergy efficiency. If other olefins are also required, the pine chips MTO represents the best specific emergy value for the whole pool of products. Still lower ethylene specific emergy could be achieved by replacing switchgrass by an uncultivated forest biomass for the production of the bioethanol required in the dehydration process. © 2015 Elsevier B.V.