The purpose of this chapter was to examine the role various IQ tests and tests of cognitive processing play in determining if an adolescent or adult meets criteria for LD and/or ADD. We reexamined the content of IQ tests prior to looking at the validity of these instruments. In order to determine if these tests yield profiles for groups of individuals previously diagnosed, we summarized research provided by the respective test authors. Overall, we found that no distinctive IQ test profiles were found for the groups of individuals with LD. The test of basic psychological processes that did show a specific cognitive weakness (e.g., a score that was low relative to the other scales provided on the test that were also in the average range and low in relation to the norm) for those with a specific reading decoding disorder was the CAS. Similarly, the only test to show evidence of a specific cognitive weakness for individuals with ADHD was also the CAS. This information is useful when the discrepancy/ consistency approach is used. The findings presented in this chapter suggest that traditional IQ tests that use subtests built on the verbal, quantitative, and nonverbal formats do not appear to be sensitive to the cognitive disorders underlying a learning or attention disorder. In contrast, the cognitive processing tests described here have more carefully defined abilities that, in the case of the CAS, do appear to identify the cognitive processing weakness for those with specific RD and ADHD. Importantly, the cognitive processing weakness found for these two groups are consistent with an understanding of each disorder. For example, those with reading decoding difficulty have problems working with information that is arranged or has to be recalled in a specific sequence (Das et al., 1994). Those with ADHD have a specific problem related to self-regulation of thoughts and actions (Goldstein & Naglieri, 2006). Knowing the cognitive processing failure related to the academic failure not only provides important information for diagnosis/eligibility, but it also provides the opportunity for successful intervention design and/or selection (see Naglieri, 2008; Naglieri & Pickering, 2010). Since their introduction in the early 1900s, IQ tests have provided a valuable way to measure general ability. As the findings summarized in this chapter suggest, however, the tests have limited utility for diagnosis for persons with LD and ADHD. With the more recent development of new tests that measure basic psychological processes comes the hope of increased utility for diagnosis and treatment. Tests of basic psychological processes offer potential advantages by providing measures of theoretically defined constructs that appear to identify specific areas of cognitive deficits related to the academic failure. More research into the utility of these tests for diagnostic and intervention purposes is clearly warranted. © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.