Objective High comorbidity ratio of bipolar mood disorder (BMD) with Axis I and Axis II diagnoses is reported in the literature. The possible relationship between BMD and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in all age groups has been attracting more attention of researchers due to highly overlapping symptoms such as excessive talking, attention deficit, and increased motor activity. In this study, we aimed to investigate the prevalence of ADHD comorbidity in BMD patients and the clinical features of these patients. Methods Of 142 patients, who presented to the Bipolar Disorder Unit of Zonguldak Karaelmas University Research and Application Hospital between the dates of August 1, 2008 and June 31, 2009 and diagnosed with BMD according to DSM-IV criteria consecutively, 118 patients signed informed consent and 90 of them completed the study. They all were in euthymic phase during the study evaluations. A sociodemographical data form, Wender-Utah Rating Scale (WURS), ADD/ADHD Diagnostic and Evaluation Inventory for Adults, and Structural Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders, Clinical Version (SCID-I) were applied to all participating patients. Results A total of 23.3% of all patients met the criteria for A-ADHD diagnosis along BMD. No difference was detected regarding sociodemographical features between the BMD + A-ADHD and the BMD without A-ADHD groups. The BMD + A-ADHD group had at least one extra educational year repetition than the other group and the difference was statistically significant. The BMD starting age in the BMD + A-ADHD group was significantly earlier (p = 0.044) and the number of manic episodes was more frequent in the BMD + A-ADHD group (p = 0.026) than the BMD without ADHD group. Panic disorder in the BMD + A-ADHD group (p = 0.019) and obsessive-compulsive disorder in the BMD + C-ADHD group (p = 0.001) were most frequent comorbidities. Conclusions A-ADHD is a frequent comorbidity in BMD. It is associated with early starting age of BMD, higher number of manic episodes during the course of BMD, and more comorbid Axis I diagnoses. © 2013 Elsevier Inc.