Background: Discordance between patient- and caregiver-reported quality of life (QoL) is well recognized. This study sought to (i) identify predictors of discrepancy between patient- and caregiver-rated QoL amongst community-dwelling persons with mild-to-moderate dementia, and (ii) differentiate between patients who systematically rate their QoL lower versus those who rate their QoL higher relative to their caregiver ratings. Methods: We recruited 165 patient-caregiver dyads with mild-to-moderate dementia. Quality of life in Alzheimer's disease (QoL-AD) scale was administered separately to patients and caregivers. Data on socio-demographics, interpersonal relationship, and disease-related characteristics (cognitive performance, mood, neuropsychiatric symptoms, functional ability, and caregiver burden) were collected. Patient-caregiver dyads were categorized based on whether patient-rated QoL was lower or higher than their respective caregiver ratings. Univariate analyses and multiple regression models were performed to identify predictors of dyadic rating discrepancy. Results: Mean patient-rated QoL was significantly higher than caregiver rating (mean difference: 3.8 ± 7.1, p < 0.001). Majority (111 (67.2%)) of patients had more positive self-perceived QoL (QoL-ADp (QoL-AD self rated by the patient) > QoL-ADc (QoL-AD proxy-rated by a caregiver)), compared with those (44 (26.7%)) with poorer self-perceived QoL (QoL-ADp < QoL-ADc). Patient's education level, depressive symptoms, and severity of neuropsychiatric symptoms predicted magnitude of discrepancy. Depression (OR = 1.17, 95% CI = 1.02-1.35) and being cared for by other relative (non-spouse/adult child; OR = 7.54, 95% CI = 1.07-53.03) predicted poorer self-perceived QoL. Conclusions: Dyadic rating discrepancy in QoL should draw the clinician's attention to patient depression and neuropsychiatric symptoms. Consideration should also be given to nature of patient-caregiver relationship when discordance between patient and caregiver assessments of QoL is observed. © International Psychogeriatric Association 2014.