The present paper concerns the study of atmospheric deposition of heavy metals, using a carpet-forming-moss species (Hypnum cupressiforme) as a bioindicator. It provides a complementary method to evaluate elemental deposition from the atmosphere to terrestrial systems. Compared with conventional precipitation analysis, it is an easier and cheaper method that ensures a high sampling density over the monitored area. The moss samples were collected over the whole territory of the country by following, more or less, a systematic sampling scheme, which is often used in environmental studies because it is convenient to implement in field campaigns, often providing good precision and complete coverage of the target population compared with random sampling. The 2010/2011 ICP vegetation moss survey data were used in this study. The unwashed, dried samples were digested completely by the microwave digestion method. The concentration (C) of selected trace metals (As, Cr, Cu, Ni, V and Zn) and conservative metals (Al, Li and Fe) were determined by ICP-AES and AAS (Cd and As) methods. To characterize the natural and the anthropogenic pattern of heavy metal deposition throughout the whole territory, the normalization process using lithium as a normalizing element was carried out on the C data for 11 elements of 44 moss samples. The obtained data set was used to compensate the natural variability of trace metals, so that the anthropogenic metal contributors could be detected and quantified. Descriptive statistics and multivariate analyses were used for the statistical treatment of the normalized concentration (NC) data using the MINITAB 17 software package. The statistical parameters of the NC data are discussed. The level of contamination was evaluated by calculating the enrichment factors, whereas the most probable local anthropogenic emitter sources were identified. The statistical analysis of NC data demonstrated that the normalization process is useful for evaluating the relative contributions of anthropogenic and natural sources of elemental deposition from the atmosphere to terrestrial systems, when the main pollution sources are from fine dust particles. © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.