Reports an error in "Measuring Sexual Aggression Perpetration in College Men: A Comparison of Two Measures" by Maria Testa, Joseph H. Hoffman, Joseph F. Lucke and Colleen E. Pagnan (Psychology of Violence, Advanced Online Publication, Aug 18, 2014, np). In the Results section, the proportion of perpetrators classified in each category, based on White and Smith's (2004) method, should be 13 (1.3%) reported contact as the most severe outcome, 8 (0.8%) reported verbally coerced intercourse or oral sex, 13 (1.3%) reported attempted rape, and 16 (1.6%) reported rape. In the Discussion section, in the subsection Is There an Advantage for One Measure Over the Other? the phrase "and surprisingly, no one reported contact only without reporting items of greater severity" should be omitted (The following abstract of the original article appeared in record 2014-34006-001.) Objective: The present study was designed to provide a comparison of rates of self-reported sexual aggression perpetration obtained using 2 different measures-a version of the Sexual Experiences Survey (SES; Abbey, Parkhill, Clinton-Sherrod, & Zawacki, 2007; Koss, Gidycz, & Wisniewski, 1987) and the Sexual Strategies Scale (SSS, Strang, Peterson, Hill, & Heiman, 2013; Struckman-Johnson, Struckman-Johnson, & Anderson, 2003). We also examined the psychometric structure of each measure using Rasch model item analysis (Rasch, 1966). Method: Two equivalent cohorts of entering freshman males (n = 994 and n = 1043) from a large northeastern university completed online measures at the end of their first semester. Results: Identical proportions of men reported using intoxication strategies (3%) and physical force (1%) during the past semester on both measures. More men reported verbal strategies on the SSS (7.8%) compared with the SES (3.7%), even when restricting to equivalent items. Rasch analysis suggested that the SSS conformed better to a unidimensional continuum of perpetration severity than the SES; however, Rasch analysis did not provide definitive support for either a tactic-based (SSS) or a tactic-plus-outcome-based (SES) hierarchy. Conclusions: Both measures functioned adequately. However, the SSS may be preferred for its better Rasch properties, better assessment of the less severe tactics, and simpler wording. (PsycINFO Database Record © 2015 APA, all rights reserved).