Solar photovoltaic (PV) rooftops have significant potentials for reducing reliance on conventional energy source and enhancing energy security in response to emergency situations or in remote areas. Widespread adaptation of solar PV rooftops can also help address climate change issue via lower overall emission of Greenhouse Gases. This paper reviewed the latest situation of solar PV rooftop implementation, expansion and execution strategies in Thailand. The review examined factors impacting adoption rate of solar PV rooftops. Supporting factors include optimum solar radiation intensity, active renewable energy development policy and Feed-In Tariff (FIT). Increasing urbanization rate also resulted in an increase in potential space suitable for solar panel installation. Barriers of solar PV rooftop implementation in Thailand were carefully analyzed. Limitation in domestic technology and technical experiences in manufacturing sector is one of the major barriers inhibiting progress in solar rooftop adoption. In addition, government subsidy and support are still needed for solar PV rooftops to be competitive with other forms of energy generation. Increasing public awareness and reforming of energy and related regulations are necessary to promote meaningful implementation of solar energy in Thailand. To enhance rate of solar PV rooftop installation in Thailand, a short-term strategy could be in a form of providing financial supports such as low interest rate loans, tax credits and development of renewable portfolio standards together with the current FIT scheme. In the longer-term, to achieve grid parity, the government and private sectors need to rely less on financial subsidies and focus on establishing R&D centers to develop and strengthen domestic solar energy industry and introduce cost-effective solar PV solutions. With effective policies and credible solutions with a viable market, public demand in solar rooftop implementation in urban areas will naturally increase and create sustainable progress in solar rooftop industry in Thailand. © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.