The convergence of India and Eurasia and the obstruction from the rigid Sichuan Basin cause the Longmenshan (LMS) to have the steepest topographic gradient at the eastern margin of the Tibetan Plateau. However, the mechanisms of surface uplift are still controversial. In this paper, we estimate the crustal structure and deformation under the LMS and its surroundings by analyzing a large amount of receiver function data recorded by regional seismic networks of the China Earthquake Administration. We apply a comprehensive splitting measurement technique on Ps conversion phase at the Moho (Moho Ps splitting) to calculate crustal anisotropy from azimuthal variations of receiver functions. Our results show that most of the seismic stations beneath the LMS area exhibit significant seismic anisotropy with the splitting time of 0.22-0.94. s and a fast polarization direction of NW-SE, while less or even no crustal anisotropy has been observed under the Sichuan Basin. Comparing the fast polarization directions of Moho Ps splitting with the indicators of lithospheric deformation (such as shear wave splitting, absolute plate motion, and global positioning system) imply a consistent tendency of deformation between the lower crust and upper mantle, but decoupling deformation in the crust beneath the LMS area. We further compare Moho Ps splitting time to that estimated from previous SKS splitting, indicating that crustal anisotropy is an important source of the SKS splitting time in this study area. In addition, a thick crust (>50. km) with high Vp/. Vs values (1.74-1.86) is also observed using the H-κ stacking method. These seismic observations are consistent with the scenario that the LMS area has been built by the lower crustal flow. Combined with the seismic reflection/refraction profile and geology studies, we further suggest that the lower crustal flow may extrude upward into the upper crust along the steeply dipping strike faults under the LMS area, resulting in the surface uplift of the LMS. © 2015.