The Gop and Laxmi Basins lying off Northwest India have been assigned ambiguous crustal types and evolution mechanisms. The Chagos-Laccadive Ridge (CLR) complex lying along the southwest coast of India has been attributed to different evolutionary processes. Late Cretaceous seafloor spreading between India and Africa formed the Mascarene Basin, and the plate reconstruction models depict unequal crustal accretion in this basin. Re-interpretation of magnetic data in the Gop and Laxmi Basins suggests that the underlying oceanic crust was accreted contemporaneously from 79. Ma at slow half spreading rates (0.6 to 1.5. cm/yr) separating the Seychelles-Laxmi Ridge complex from India. The spreading ridge became extinct at 71. Ma in the central region between 19-20°N and 65.5-67°E, and at 68.7. Ma in the Gop Basin. Extinction progressed southwards with time until 64.1. Ma at ~. 14.5°N in the Laxmi Basin. This spreading probably limited the seafloor spreading in the northern Mascarene Basin, while normal to fast spreading continued in the south. The fracture zone FZ2 acted as a major boundary between the northern and southern Mascarene Basin, and may have also restricted the southward propagation of the Laxmi Basin spreading ridge.Plate reconstruction models generated in this study accommodate several microplates between Madagascar and India, and trace their movements over time within the India-Africa spreading corridor. Furthermore, these models suggest the formation of the Seychelles-Laxmi Ridge microplate by 79. Ma in a complex three plate system. This microplate may have existed up to 64.1. Ma and experienced an anticlockwise rotation of about 50°. Under the influence of the Deccan hotspot activity, the Laxmi Basin spreading ridge jumped southwestward splitting the Seychelles-Laxmi Ridge complex and initiating the Carlsberg Ridge. The presence of about 160. km of oceanic crust in the Gop and Laxmi Basins partially reduces the space problem faced in the earlier plate reconstruction models. © 2015 Elsevier B.V.