Background: We investigated the clinical relevance of a common variant, rs4820599, in the γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT)1 gene, associated with the serum GGT level, in Japanese type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) subjects. Methods: We conducted a retrospective longitudinal study (4.9 ± 2.5 years) including 352 T2DM patients (T2DM subjects) and a cross-sectional study including 796 health screening program participants (general subjects). A real-time TaqMan allelic discrimination assay was used to identify the genotypes. Risk factors for a high brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) (≥1750 cm/sec) or diabetic retinopathy (DR) were determined using a generalized estimating equations approach, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis or Cox proportional hazards model, etc. Results: The frequency of the GGT1 G allele was 20.8% in the T2DM subjects, and no associations were found between the GGT1 genotype and risk of T2DM. The mean log GGT values in the T2DM and general subjects were significantly higher among G allele carriers than non-carriers. The G allele and a low HDL-C level were identified to be risk factors for a high baPWV in the T2DM subjects [odds ratio (OR) 1.80, P = 0.008; OR 1.71, P = 0.03; respectively), and a significant interactive effect between these factors was found on the risk of a high baPWV and DR. The HDL-C level at baseline was a significant predictor of a high baPWV only in G allele carriers according to the ROC analysis. This result regarding baPWV in the T2DM subjects was replicated in the general population. Meanwhile, the GGT1 genotype was not associated with the risk of DR, although it affected the principal factors involved in the risk of DR, and a low HDL-C level was also found to be a risk factor for DR only in G allele carriers. Conclusions: We herein describe for the first time the significant interactive effects of the GGT1 G allele and a low HDL-C level on a high baPWV and DR. These findings may encourage future clinical trials comparing the efficacy of agents increasing the HDL-C levels among the GGT1 genotypes. However, well-designed studies in larger cohorts are needed to confirm our results. © 2015 Jinnouchi et al.; licensee BioMed Central.