Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is a severe disorder characterized by hyperglycemia and hypoinsulinemia. A higher occurrence of bone fractures has been reported in T1DM, and although bone mineral density is reduced in this disorder, it is also thought that bone quality may be altered in this chronic pathology. Vibrational microscopies such as Fourier transform infrared microspectroscopy (FTIRM) represent an interesting approach to study bone quality as they allow investigation of the collagen and mineral compartment of the extracellular matrix in a specific bone location. However, as spectral feature arising from the mineral may overlap with those of the organic component, the demineralization of bone sections should be performed for a full investigation of the organic matrix. The aims of the present study were to (i) develop a new approach, based on the demineralization of thin bone tissue section to allow a better characterization of the bone organic component by FTIRM, (ii) to validate collagen glycation and collagen integrity in bone tissue and (iii) to better understand what alterations of tissue material properties in newly forming bone occur in T1DM.The streptozotocin-injected mouse (150mg/kg body weight, injected at 8weeks old) was used as T1DM model. Animals were randomly allocated to control (n=8) or diabetic (n=10) groups and were sacrificed 4weeks post-STZ injection. Bones were collected at necropsy, embedded in polymethylmethacrylate and sectioned prior to examination by FTIRM. FTIRM collagen parameters were collagen maturity (area ratio between 1660 and 1690cm-1 subbands), collagen glycation (area ratio between the 1032cm-1 subband and amide I) and collagen integrity (area ratio between the 1338cm-1 subband and amide II).No significant differences in the mineral compartment of the bone matrix could be observed between controls and STZ-injected animals. On the other hand, as compared with controls, STZ-injected animals presented with significant higher value for collagen maturity (17%, p= 0.0048) and collagen glycation (99%, p= 0.0121), while collagen integrity was significantly lower by 170% (p= 0.0121).This study demonstrated the profound effect of early T1DM on the organic compartment of the bone matrix in newly forming bone. Further studies in humans are required to ascertain whether T1DM also lead to similar effect on the quality of the bone matrix. © 2015 Elsevier Inc.