Aims: Non-HDL cholesterol represents the pro-atherogenic, apo-B-containing lipoprotein fraction of circulating lipids, and represents a secondary target for CVD prevention in people with diabetes. We therefore assessed the proportion of individuals with diabetes and CVD who attain a non-HDL-C goal of <2.6mmol/L, the extent to which triglycerides influence this goal attainment, and their relationship with HDL-C and triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRL). Methods and results: Of 2674 diabetic subjects with baseline CVD in the Hungarian MULTI-GAP programme (mean age 64.8 years, mean HbA1c 7.2%), an LDL-C goal <1.8 and non-HDL-C goal <2.6mmol/L was attained in 13.5% and 17.7% individuals, respectively. Non-HDL-C goal attainment declined at higher triglyceride concentrations; and graphically this relationship appeared to be continuously and inversely associated with triglyceride concentrations. In contrast, the relationship between LDL-C goal attainment was inversely and continuously associated with triglyceride levels up to about 2.5mmol/L, after which the graphical appearance plateaued such that no further difference in LDL-C were observed beyond triglyceride levels of 2.5mmol/L. With increasing triglyceride concentrations, non-HDL-C increased continuously, HDL-C decreased initially but later plateaued (at 1.5-2.0 [men] or 2.0-2.5mmol/L [women]), LDL-C levels plateaued at about 2.0-2.5mmol/L, and TRL-cholesterol (non-HDL-C minus LDL-C) rose continuously. In multivariable-adjusted models, elevated triglyceride concentrations, non-specialist care and uncontrolled blood pressure were inversely associated with non-HDL-C goal attainment. Triglyceride levels were more strongly associated with non-HDL-C than with LDL-C goal attainment (ORs per 1-SD increase in log-triglycerides was 0.74, 95% CI 0.61-0.89, for LDL-C goal attainment, and 0.49, 95% CI 0.38-0.61, for non-HDL-C goal attainment). Conclusion: Non-HDL-C goal attainment was suboptimal in people with diabetes and co-existing CVD. This was most marked at higher triglyceride levels, possibly due to higher levels of TRL. © 2015 .