In this paper we propose a gravito-electro-magnetic sheath (GEMS) model to explore the equilibrium properties of the solar plasma system. It describes the solar interior plasma (SIP) on the bounded scale and the solar wind plasma (SWP) on the unbounded scale from the viewpoint of plasma-based theory. This differs from the previously reported gravito-electrostatic sheath (GES) model employed to precisely define the solar surface boundary (SSB) on the fact that the present investigation incorporates variable temperature, magnetic field and collisional processes on the solar plasma flow dynamics. We show that the included parameters play important roles in the solar plasma dynamics. We demonstrate that the SSB location shifts outward as a result of the magnetic field by 14 % in comparison with that predicted by the GES model. As a consequence of the interaction of the plasma with magnetic field, the width of the sheath broadens by 25 % in comparison with the GES model predicted value. This physically means that the magnetic field decreases the distribution of the tiny (inertialess) electrons relative to the massive (inertial) ions, which in turn increases the confining wall potential value resulting in the increased width. Besides, the sonic point moves inward by 8 % as a result of collisions in the SIP that leads to rapid acceleration. Here, collisional dynamics plays an important role in the conversion process of the electron thermal energy into the bulk plasma flow energy. An interesting feature of continuous and smooth transition of the electric current density from the SIP to the SWP (with finite positive divergence on both the scales) through the SSB under inhomogeneous temperature distribution is also reported. Finally, the analyses may be applied to understand the realistic equilibrium dynamics of stellar plasmas never addressed before within the earlier GES framework like establishment of current-field correlation, properties of the slow solar wind and its effects on the interaction mechanism with the magnetic field, heliospheric current sheet, etc. © 2015, Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht.