Renewable energy sources such as wind energy are available without any limitations. In order to extract this energy efficiency, the reliability of such technologies is critical if pay back periods and power generation requirements are to be met. Due to recent developments in the field of wind engineering and in particular the expansion of installed capacity around the world, the need for reliable and intelligent diagnostic tools is of greater importance. The number of offshore wind turbines installed in the seas around Britain’s coasts is likely to increase from just fewer than 150–7,500 over the next 10 years with the potential cost of £10 billion. Operation and Maintenance activities are estimated to be 35 % against the cost of electricity. However, the development of appropriate and efficient maintenance strategies is currently lacking in the wind industry. The current reliability and failure modes of offshore wind turbines are known and have been used to develop preventive and corrective maintenance strategies which have done little to improve reliability. In addition, the failure of one minor component can cause escalated damage to a major component, which can increase repair and or replacement costs. A reliability centered maintenance (RCM) approach offers considerable benefit to the management of wind turbine operations since it includes an appreciation of the impact of faults on operations. Due to the high costs involved in performing maintenance and the even higher costs associated with failures and subsequent downtime and repair, it is critical that the impacts are considered when maintenance is planned. This paper provides an overview of the application of RCM and on line e-condition monitoring to wind turbine maintenance management. Unplanned maintenance levels can be reduced by increasing the reliability of the gear box and individual gears through the analysis of lubricants. Finally the paper will discuss the development of a complete sensor-based processing unit that can continuously monitor the wind turbines lubricated systems and provide, via wireless technology, real time data enabling on shore staff with the ability to predict degradation anticipate problems and take remedial action before damage and failure occurs. © 2014, The Society for Reliability Engineering, Quality and Operations Management (SREQOM), India and The Division of Operation and Maintenance, Lulea University of Technology, Sweden.