The performance implications of link or node failures in Mobile Ad-hoc Network (MANET) networks are studied in details.Several recovery mechanisms are proposed to reduce the impact of failure and guarantee a loop-free in the network. These mechanisms seek to reduce recovery time, which remains undesirably long in the current routing protocols in wired and wireless networks. Hence, we evaluate the efficiency of the Optimized Link State Routing Protocol with and without recovery paths under varying environment with different node densities. In addition, the mobility of nodes is changing the speed movements when they start to move from area to another one. This paper assists in ascertaining the effect of varying node densities on the connectivity’s life between mobile nodes in the network. Hence, it showed the effect of a local recovery mechanism resulted in achieving a significant improvement in network performance by seeking a long life backup path between source and destination for different nodes density. Real time applications are required to be supported by mobile ad hoc networks by finding an efficient recovery mechanism. This is because the MANET networks allow the nodes to move from one area to another without any notification. The real time applications traffics are considered as a sensitive application, and it is the most affected by failure through the occurrence of delay and loss of packets. It is, therefore, not suitable for use by players. In mobile ad hoc networks, routing protocol functions are based on many factors, such as, node mobility and density and broken paths. According to these factors, the paper was further extended to develop a recovery mechanism in MANET based on the mobility and density of nodes to alleviate the impact of the frequent loss of connection due to the flexibility of free nodes, which move from one area to another without pre-notification.The aim behind recovery mechanism is to reduce current recovery time to enhance the Quality of Service in the MANET. © 2015 Springer Science+Business Media New York